---
title: kconnect history
authors:
  - "@richardcase"
reviewers:
  - "@richardcase"
creation-date: 2020-08-27
last-updated: 2020-08-27
status: provisional
see-also:
    - "/docs/proposals/20200607-initial-design.md"
replaces:
superseded-by:
---

# kconnect - history

## Summary

This proposal includes a proposal for introducing **history** of connections into kconnect

## Motivation

To aid the utility of kconnect a history of connections will be kept. This history can then be used at a later date to generate the kubeconfig quicker and with less information. This is to make the tool more useful to its users.

### Goals

* Demonstrate how `kconnect ls` will be used
* Demonstrate how `kconnect use` will be updated
* Aid refinement of the initial design

### Non-goals/Future Work

*

## Proposal/Design

A new `ls` command will be introduced used to show the history of the connections you have made to clusters. You can see details of a selected history item (i.e. its flags). Then based on a history entry you can re-generate a kubeconfig using `kconnect use` without having to re-enter all the flag values. The only values that aren't saved are flags that are deemed sensitive such as `--password`.

The following sections summarise the proposal for implementing the history in kconnect.

### History file

#### Location & format

Its proposed the history of connections be held in the following file: `$HOME/.kconnect/history`. The format of the file is undecided but a textual format such as YAML will likely be used initially. We will consider binary formats as well.

#### When will history be stored

Everytime `kconnect use` is invoked and a kubeconfig file is created a history item will be created.

#### Data stored

The data stored in the history file will be an entry for each successful `kconnect use` invocation. Each entry will store the following:

* Disovery provider used (i.e. eks)
* Identiry provider used (i.e. saml)
* Date/time (ISO 8601 format) of when the entry was added
* Unique discovery provider specific identifer for that cluster. For example, with the EKS provider we might stote the AWs account ID and EKS cluster name. This identifier must be unique and stable.
* Alias - optional name that can be used
* Flags and flag values - except flags deemded sensitive
* Location of the kubeconfig file that was written to

As an example (if we where using YAML as the format):

```yaml
-
provider: eks
identity: saml
id: MTIzNDU2Nzg5L215Y2x1c3RlcjE  # base 64 url safe encoding of 123456789/mycluster1
datetime: 2020-08-27T16:06:08.180856
flags:
    username: bob@someone.com
    idp-provider: GoogleApps
    idp-endpoint: https://accounts.google.com/o/saml2/initsso?idpid=
    profile: g-saml
    role: arn:aws:iam::123456789:role/TestAccess
config: ~/.kube/config
```

### User Experience

#### Showing the history

First showing help for the command

```bash
./kconnect ls -h

shows the history of the connections you have made using kconnect

Usage:

kconnect ls [FLAGS] e.g ./kconnect ls --provider eks

flags:

-p  --provider         [optional]    used to filter history items based on a specific cluster provider (e.g. eks)
-i  --identity         [optional]    used to filter history items based on a specific identity provider (e.g. saml)
    --id               [optional]    used to filter history items for a cluster with the specified id
-f  --flag             [optional]    used to filter history items based on a flag and its value
-k  --kubeconfig       [optional]    used to filter history items that where written to the specified kubeconfig
-o  --output           [optional]    used to specify the output format of the history. Defaults to yaml. Options are [yaml,json, table]

Example usage:

    kconnect ls --flag username=bob@somewhere.com

```

Supports autocomplete. Refer to autocomplete setups instructions at https://kconnect.com/setup/autocomplete

### Additional Details

Add anything else relevant here
